{{pagemeta
|Name                = home
|Title               = IT and process
|Author              = Owen Beresford
|DocVersion          = 2.0
|AccessGroup         = 0
|Method              = GET
|CodeVersion         = 2.0.0
|Strapline           = Literate programming: 100,000 words and rising
|Keywords            = home index
|frame 			= reach-frame
|description 		= Assorted articles and processes on the current state of software engineering. Please click through to articles... 
}}
{{nextresource GET
|*
}}
{{html content
<div class="blocker">
<div class="chunkStatus">
[[status]]
</div>
<div class="chunkAbout">
[[about]]
</div>
<br class="blocker" />
<div class="chunkArticles">
<ul class="tabList">
<li id="clickArticles">Articles</li>
<li id="clickProjects">Projects</li>
<li id="clickIRead">I read</li>
</ul>
<fieldset>
<p id="summaryArticles">[[articleSummary]]</p>
<p id="summaryProjects">[[projectSummary]]</p>
<p id="summaryIRead">[[iReadSummary]]</p>
<div id="blockArticles">
[[articlesList]]
</div>
<div id="blockProjects">
[[projectsList]]
</div>
<div id="blockIRead">
[[iReadList]]
</div>
</fieldset>
</div>
</div>
}}
{{html extraHeader
<!--[if lt IE 9]>
<script src="http://css3-mediaqueries-js.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/css3-mediaqueries.js"></script>
<![endif]-->
<script type="text/javascript">
$(document).ready(function() {
$ice_tab_init();
$ice_tab_change('Articles');
});
</script>
}}
{{css extraHeader
@media mobile {
.outer_menu { margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px; }
.h4_title h2, .h4_title h1 { max-width: 180px;  min-width: 150px; }
.h4_title p { display:none; }
.h4_title { margin-left:0px; max-width:180px; min-width:150px; margin-top:0px; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout, .h4_footer { display:none }
.chunkArticles { width:90%; top:170px; }
}

@media screen and (max-width:450px) {
.outer_menu { margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px; }
.h4_title h2, .h4_title h1 { max-width: 180px;  min-width: 150px; }
.h4_title p { display:none; }
.h4_title { margin-left:0px; max-width:180px; min-width:150px; margin-top:0px; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout, .h4_footer { display:none }
.chunkArticles { width:90%; top:170px; }
}

/* this is for widescreen tv outputs... */
@media screen and (min-width: 1500px) and (max-width:2000px) {
.outer_menu { min-width:1000px; max-width:1200px; }
#shareGroup iframe { width:500px; }
.h4_footer { width:1000px; }
.h4_title { float: left; max-width: 1000px; min-width: 700px; width: auto; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout { width:800px; }
}

/* large screens */
@media screen and (min-width: 1280px) and (max-width:1500px) {
.outer_menu { width:650px; }
#shareGroup iframe { width:150px; }
.h4_footer { width:650px; }
.h4_title { float: left; max-width: 650px; min-width: 360px; width: auto; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout { width:500px; }
}

/* meduim screens */
@media screen and (min-width: 1150px) and (max-width:1280px) {
.outer_menu { width:650px; }
#shareGroup iframe { width:150px; }
.h4_footer { width:650px; }
.h4_title { float: left; max-width: 650px; min-width: 360px; width: auto; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout { width:500px; }
}

@media screen and (min-width: 1020px) and (max-width:1150px) {
.outer_menu { margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px; width:550px; height:170px; }
.h4_footer { width:550px; }
.h4_title { margin-left:0px; max-width:350px; margin-top:0px;}
.h4_title h1 { margin-top:0px;}
#shareGroup { max-width:350px; overflow-x:hidden; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout { width:400px; }
}
@media screen and (min-width: 900px) and (max-width:1020px) {
.outer_menu { margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px; width:435px; height:170px; }
.h4_footer { width:435px; }
.h4_title { margin-left:0px; max-width:250px; min-width:150px; margin-top:0px;}
.h4_title p { display:none; }
.h4_title h1 { margin-top:0px; max-width:270px; min-width:250px; }
#shareGroup { max-width:270px; display:block; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout { width:300px; }
} 
@media screen and (min-width: 850px) and (max-width:900px) {
.outer_menu { margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px; min-width:300px; max-width:410px; }
.h4_footer { min-width:350px; max-width:410px; }
.h4_title p { display:none; }
.h4_title h2, .h4_title h1 { max-width: 210px;  min-width: 150px; }
.h4_title { margin-left:0px; max-width:250px; min-width:150px; margin-top:0px; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout { margin-left:30px; width:300px; }
.chunkArticles { right:5px;}
}
@media screen and (min-width: 800px) and (max-width:850px) {
.outer_menu { margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px; min-width:300px; max-width:390px; }
.h4_footer { min-width:350px; max-width:400px; }
.h4_title p { display:none; }
.h4_title h2, .h4_title h1 { max-width: 210px;  min-width: 150px; }
.h4_title { margin-left:0px; max-width:250px; min-width:150px; margin-top:0px; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout { margin-left:30px; width:300px; }
.chunkArticles { right:5px;}
}
@media screen and (min-width: 750px) and (max-width:800px) {
.outer_menu { margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px; min-width:290px; max-width:330px; }
.h4_footer { min-width:290px; max-width:330px; }
.h4_title h2, .h4_title h1 { max-width: 180px;  min-width: 150px; }
.h4_title p { display:none; }
.h4_title { margin-left:0px; max-width:180px; min-width:150px; margin-top:0px; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout { margin-left:0px; width:300px; }
.chunkArticles { right:5px;}
}
@media screen and (min-width: 700px) and (max-width:750px) {
.outer_menu { margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px; min-width:250px; max-width:280px; }
.h4_footer { min-width:250px; max-width:290px; }
.h4_title h2, .h4_title h1 { max-width: 260px;  min-width: 150px; }
.h4_title p { display:none; }
.h4_menu { display:none; }
.h4_title { margin-left:0px; max-width:250px; min-width:150px; margin-top:0px; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout { margin-left:0px; width:280px; }
.chunkArticles { right:5px;}
}

@media screen and  (max-width:700px) {
.outer_menu { margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px; }
.h4_title h2, .h4_title h1 { max-width: 180px;  min-width: 150px; }
.h4_title p { display:none; }
.h4_title { margin-left:0px; max-width:180px; min-width:150px; margin-top:0px; }
.chunkStatus, .chunkAbout, .h4_footer { display:none }
.chunkArticles { width:90%; top:185px; }
.outer_menu { margin-left:30px; }

}
@media screen and (max-width:600px) {

#tinyScreen { display:block; } 
#bigScreen  { display:none; }
.outer_menu { margin:0px; margin-left:0px; }
.fewWords { width:95%; }

}
@media mobile {
.fewWords { width:95%; }
.outer_menu { margin:0px; margin-left:0px; }

}
}}
{{wiki status
++ Current status:
This is a simple site with alot of words.  My objective is communication. 
When I don't have large projects going on, I am adding more content (and when I do, I am scribbling notes to publish later). 

Many of these articles are to show non-visible artifacts.  If I am re-engineering your sales platform, I will make many changes.  Looking at the front-end skin of another sales platform doesn't say whether I am good at re-engineering, or not.  That I can write the article means I know about the subject.
}}
{{wiki about
++ About the site:
You are interested in reading this site as: 
# I have sent you a link.
# You are looking for a software developer.
# You looking to solve a problem, and are reading.
# You are randomly reading about technology.

The site is:
# Lots of material removed from my CV, so I can keep that concise.
# Articles on technology.
# Project notes for various bits of software I have created.
# Assessments of various technology and processes.  
# Mostly, alot of words.  

+++ Change list
This list got too big, I moved it to ((change-list|here)).

}}
{{wiki articleSummary nowrap
Resources, roughly reverse chronological order. Please see ((publication-process)).
I am splitting my topics into article size chunks, so there are lots of "part1" articles at the moment.
}}
{{wiki projectSummary nowrap
Some code artifacts I have published, this list includes out-of-date work, so I included dates here.  When I was inside an NDA contract, I did some pro-bono charity work to be able to show technical skills.
}}
{{wiki iReadSummary nowrap
Everyone is as good as their sources.  Blogs quite often mention each other.
}}
{{wiki articlesList
* ((whats-changed)) ~ short text on what has changed since you looked at my profile a few years ago.
* ((experience-template))
* //BCS lecture// A short article on ((hadoop)).
* Notes I took at ((yapc|YAPC)).
* An article on ((drupal-notes|Drupal)).
* ((symfony-usage|I list my normal use of Symfony)), as I can't claim years of experience.
* ((php-tools|Tool cheat sheet))
* I was asked for a ((fault-analysis|fault finding process)), I wasn't happy with my verbal answer, so wrote it again.
* On ((literate-programming))
* My [https://github.com/owenBeresford/ github] account ~ source only.
* On ((geo-lookup|geolocation)) PHP libraries, and the weaknesses of this structure.
* Some ((code-metrics|code metrics))
* On ((pdf-rendering|PDF-rendering)) mostly via PHP.
* My most frequent ((design-patterns|design patterns)).
* 2013 ((reach-skin|Discussion)) on my recent reskin.
* Article ((language-register|on language)).
* Some ((seo|SEO notes)).
* First ((symfony2-overview|symfony2)) article, more to come.
* Resource discussing a ((visitors|JS and GIS)) project I did. 
* Notes on ((font-exploration|fonts)).
* Some ((html5-market| HTML5)) market share notes, more to come.
* //BCS course// I recently went to an ((architecture)) and systems course, this is my discussion (long..).
* ((professional-development)) ~ the first instance in wrote in 2013.  I started putting much more content into this site at around this point.
* ((professional-development-2014)).
* ((professional-development-2015)).
* ((professional-development-2016)).
* ((db-visualisers)) ~ graphical tools for looking at DB schema.
* ((non-sql)) ~ notes on possible non-SQL data storage.
* ((why-mongo)) ~ why !NoSQL structures are important.
* ((structured-storage)) ~ description of some !NoSQL.
* ((mongo-interface)) ~ means to use and control Mongo.
* ((scaling-mongo)) ~ some words on volumetrics in Mongo.
* My reference ((sitemap-plan| sitemap and RSS)).
* ((js-classloader| JS classloaders)) ~ research before I rewrite something
* Some architectures for ((db-rollover|high rate writes)).
* An short article on ((cors-headers|CORS)), barely worth writing about.
* An article on ((gpl-p1| GPL and OSS)), more to come.
* I wrote an ((php-performance| intro)) for the benchmark, but it became a separate article.
* A ((php-benchmark)) ~ I am adding more items to this as I discuss it with people.
* ((further-qualifications)); I am now [http://www.zend.com/en/yellow-pages#show-ClientCandidateID=ZEND022735 ZCE], this made me think about goals alot.
* A big proposed feature ~ ((word-filtering|decent word filtering)) (pt1).
* When I have more time, I will ((test-plan|implement this)).
* ((owenberesford-website|Notes for this site)) - a PHP5 project, there are more detailed plans ((iceline-plan|for future work)).
* ((change-process| Process and methodology)) ~ more meeting notes.
* ((fullstack-JS|Article on JS process))
* Holidays as a ((festivals-2010|demonstration of PM)).
* There is a startup that claims to "do festivals", this is a response, with ((festival-portal|a user centric features))
* An article on the ((new-media|media organisations)).
* ((git-notes|Notes on using GIT)).
* A demo page for ((qunit-demo|JS testing)).
* Article on why ((justify-oop|OO is useful)).  My notes are still current; not all developers use this or later paradigms, especially amongst the design community;
* Article covering ((skills-profile|my skills list)).
* My current ((goals)) in IT.
* An ((cain-introduction|academic introduction)) for CAIN.
This list will get substantially longer.   
}}
{{wiki iReadList
* [http://alistapart.com/blog/ A list apart]
* [http://fabien.potencier.org/ F Potenciers blog] 
* [http://arstechnica.com/ Ars Technica]
* [https://phpbestpractices.org/ PHP best practices] ~ the URL is on the list, because I like the idea.  If you come from a Java background, there is no learning curve.
* [http://abdulapopoola.com a JS blog by A Popoola]
* [http://www.mdpi.com/journal/algorithms MDPI algorithms]
* [http://www.owasp.org/ OWASP]
* [http://dailyjs.com/ Daily JS]
* [http://htmlhelp.com/tools/validator/ html validator]
* [http://caniuse.com/ Can I use]?
* [http://www.color-blindness.com/coblis-color-blindness-simulator/ colour blindness simulator]
* [http://uk.php.net/manual/en/ php api docs]
* [http://cfajohnson.com/computers/pdflinks.shtml some books]
* [http://www.blog.qarea.com Qarea]
* [http://sethgodin.typepad.com/seths_blog/ Seths blog]
* [http://www.quirksmode.org quirks mode, PP Koch]
* [http://martinfowler.com/bliki/ M Fowler]
* [http://devdocs.io/ unified multi-lingual docs] ~ hopefully this has enough content to be useful. 
* [http://zetafleet.com/blog/why-i-consider-setinterval-harmful Zetafleet] blog, software engineering in JS
* More [http://ejohn.org/category/blog/ J Resig]
* [http://williamdurand.fr/ W Durand]'s blog
* [http://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/ E Meyer]'s blog.
* [http://www.gegeek.com/documents/649546B630371346316B2DAAD5D323C7F7B73A14.html many "cheat sheets"]
* [https://remysharp.com/ R Sharp]'s blog
* **place holder text, need to import bookmarks**
}}
{{wiki projectsList
* Contact me if you would like an up-to-date copy of my CV.   If you are a recruiter or HR person, please can you read the more targeted one I will provide to match your job description.
* I have a lot of demos, as this is the best practical way to show skills.  
* A specific resource ((jQuery-columnise)) inside the reskin ~ now a jQuery.
* 2015 a ((jQuery-biblio|jQuery plugin)) to extract biblio, for better UX on mobile.
* ((php-oddity1|Closures being awkward)), and I don't see their scope in server code. 
* ((html5-img)) RWD scaling image demo for 200px through 1500px.
* 2013 A specific resource ((jQuery-columnise)) inside the reskin ~ now a jQuery.
* 2013 ((columniser-process|Second article)) on columnise.

* 2013 An article my ((jQuery-wresize|BufferedEvent aka window resize)) library, jQuery.
* 2015 An article my ((jQuery-reading-duration|reading duration library)) jQuery.
* Notes for ((json-in-sf2|JSON in SF2 REST)) API.
* End 2014, ((punit|perl unit)) tester framework, also ((punit-implementation)) specifically to reduce the cost of having good coverage.
* Notes on ((unit-tests)), as a programmers edition.
* 2014, a '''planned''' jQuery module, to ((jQuery-paste|make paste)) work reliably across browsers.
* 2013, I '''planned''' to do a jQuery module to make ((jQuery-retab|tabbed UI)) and jQuery based effects work better.  
* a 2015 role ((lead-engineer)).
* A 2014 role ((software-engineer)).
* 2014, An article my ((jQuery-wresize|BufferedEvent aka window resize)) library.
* ((columniser-process|Second article)) on columnise.
* 2013, a ((sf2-demo|video Symfony2 demo)), direct link [[[site_sitelink]]/sf2/web/app.php/view here]
* 2014, a ((sf2-demo2|RSS Symfony2 demo)), direct link [[[site_sitelink]]/sf2/web/app.php/bbc-news here]
* 2013, a ((sf2-demo3|doctrine Symfony2 demo)) ~ this was my first thing inside Symfony, @@-direct link [[[site_sitelink]]/sf2/web/app.php/entry here]+++(link not published)@@
* 2014, a ((json-sf2-demo|JSON and SOLID OO Symfony2 demo)), no link its a CLI solution.
* 2014, a ((behat-sf2-demo|Behat and Symfony2 demo)) direct link [[[site_sitelink]]/sf2/web/app.php/football here] 
* 2014, anther demo was requested ((rest-sf2-demo)), this was hard to DDD.
* 2013, updated ~ a PHP5 project, there are more detailed plans ((iceline-plan|for future work)).
* 2013, updated ~ The ((iceline-project|basis of documentation)) for the libraries that are in use to drive this site.  This document will eventually be ten times its current size.
* 2013, List of ((mt-projects|projects at the perm role to fund getting to London)).
* 2014, Build a narrow purpose ((senior-web-developer|CMS)). 
* 2014, A short ((senior-developer|contract)), to rebuild an integration.
* 2014, Another ((symfony-developer|contract)), to build a prototype.
* 2013, A front end ((route-plotting|GIS project)) from a previous employer.
* 2012, A front end project ((visitors|visitors from a previous employer)).
* 2011, A page on a ((mswhw-project|standout project)) at a previous employer.
* 2012, A list of ((ms-projects|visible projects)) I wrote as a web applications developer.
* 2013 ~ a tech demo utilising ((qunit-demo|qUnit)).  This will probably pick up more features, when I need to show people things.  I am integrating this as bigger test platform at my current employer.
* 2004, Work to assist a friends !PhD project called ((cain-project|CAIN)) written in Perl5.
* 2001, A place holder for my BSc dissertation ((hyspirit-interaction)).   This work is obsolete, and mostly Java1.3.   
* 2003, A place holder for my MSc dissertation ((portinuum)).   This multi-year project was cancelled by the University after I left.   
* 2010, Notes on learning and experience in ((systems-developer|a long term role)).
* 2011, Notes on learning and experience in ((applications-developer|a shorter role)).
* 2012, Notes on learning and experience in ((web-application-developer|a pure web agency role)).
* 2013, Notes on learning and experience in ((php-perl-developer|my last permenant role)).
* 2011, ((jdi-project|Sample mini-site)) - this is a mini-site I wrote as a skills demo for an employer.  This is an open task, but currently low priority.
* 2010, ((pig-latin|Pig Latin translator)) - Sample work in PHP5.
* ((php5-quick|A timed test)) - I have removed this as it depends on depreciated API.
* 2011, ((numerical-example|Some numerical examples)) in hybrid C/C++.
* 2006, An ((ajax|AJAX)) library I wrote, before jQuery was released.  Today I would recommend using jQuery, as it has a larger scope, and it has more features.  As a study of JS this is interesting; it uses closures, since objects didn't work on all browsers.  It a portable example of multi-threaded logging and state machines.
* 2007, Design notes for ((tbbs-website|TBBS)).  I am not owner of the page content, so am not hosting this.   The URL wasn't maintained and has expired since 2007.  I am posting this page to demonstrate my customer focus.  
* 2007, ((webhackery-library|Web hackery v1.1)), a page renderer I built for the ((tbbs-website|TBBS)) website, needs more features completing.   Work was edited down to PHP4.2 to match web host.  
* 2002, Discussion and process on work I did for ((thebarnfarm-website|the barn farm)).  
* 2001, Notes for an older technology demo site ((noonshadow-website|Noonshadow)).   I am presenting the design notes not the website, which is circa 2000 technology, it does demonstrate strong Javascript.  
* 2001, A frozen and historical graphics project ((sgfx-project|SGFX)) (This work is too old to be useful, written in Java1.4).
* 2001, A file volume synchroniser I wrote in Java 1.3 called ((sync-project|Sync)). 
* 2002, A HTML pre-processor called ((linx-project|linx)), used to build ((noonshadow-website|Noonshadow)).  Complete features to original specification.  Technically obsolete, recent versions of PHP or Ruby are widely installed and easier to operate.  
* //There will be more//
 
}}

